docs/configuration.rst, before:

Configuration file (``clans.cfg``)
----------------------------------

Persistent configuration is set in a file called ``clans.cfg``,
in the clans profile directory. The location of this directory is
reported by:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans config --dir

You can go directly to editing the configuration file with:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans config

``clans.cfg`` follows the ConfigParser_ syntax: essentially, it
consists of sections, each led by a ``[section]``
header and followed by ``name: value`` or ``name=value`` entries.

.. _ConfigParser: http://docs.python.org/2/library/configparser.html

Getting started
++++++++++

You will probably want to set at least two values in the
configuration file:

 - your username
 - your preferred output format

.. _config-username:

To set your username, create the ``[login]`` section and add a
``username`` entry:

.. code-block:: ini

    [login]
    username=baldwint

With this value set, I will no longer have to specify ``-u baldwint``
every time I use clans.

.. _config-formatter:

I'm also accustomed to passing ``--format color`` when I read plans. I
can avoid passing this every time by setting ``format=color`` in the
``[clans]`` section. I add the following:

.. code-block:: ini

    [clans]
    format=color

Now clans will always make colorized output, unless I specify
otherwise.

By section
++++++++++

The ``[login]`` section sets options to do with authentication. The
following configuration options may be set:

:username: sets a default value for the ``--username`` flag, if it is
           not specified.
:url:      sets the location of the Plans service to use for login.
           Defaults to ``http://www.grinnellplans.com``.

The ``[clans]`` section controls how the command-line client behaves.

:format:   sets a default value for the ``--format`` flag, if it is
           not specified.
:editor:   sets which editor to use when editing your plan, in case
           you want to use one other than is set by the ``EDITOR``
           environment variable.

Commit message:

renamed --file to --from-file, doc changes
--file is a dangerous option, so I removed the short flag -f and
renamed the long flag to something more explicit. Ideally this option
should be part of the backup extension but that's not possible right
now because the hooks don't offer any way to modify the plan text.

I also made a lot of documentation additions/changes that have been
nagging me for a while, and changed a few of the command line --help
outputs to flow more nicely together.

docs/configuration.rst, after:

Configuration
-------------

Clans stores configuration information and other data
(login cookies, newlove read state, etc.)
in its *profile directory*.
The path to this directory is reported by:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans config --dir

By default, this is a folder inside your operating system's designated
place for application data, but it can also be set using the
``$CLANS_DIR`` environment variable.

Persistent configuration is set in a file called ``clans.cfg``,
in the clans profile directory.
You can go directly to editing the configuration file with:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans config

``clans.cfg`` follows the ConfigParser_ syntax: essentially, it
consists of sections, each led by a ``[section]``
header and followed by ``name: value`` or ``name=value`` entries.

.. _ConfigParser: http://docs.python.org/2/library/configparser.html

Getting started
++++++++++

You will probably want to set at least two values in the
configuration file:

 - your username
 - your preferred output format

.. _config-username:

To set your username, create the ``[login]`` section and add a
``username`` entry:

.. code-block:: ini

    [login]
    username=baldwint

With this value set, I will no longer have to specify ``-u baldwint``
every time I use clans.

.. _config-formatter:

I'm also accustomed to passing ``--format color`` when I read plans. I
can avoid passing this every time by setting ``format=color`` in the
``[clans]`` section. I add the following:

.. code-block:: ini

    [clans]
    format=color

Now clans will always make colorized output, unless I specify
otherwise.

By section
++++++++++

The ``[login]`` section sets options to do with authentication. The
following configuration options may be set:

:username: sets a default value for the ``--username`` flag, if it is
           not specified.
:url:      sets the location of the Plans service to use for login.
           Defaults to ``http://www.grinnellplans.com``.

The ``[clans]`` section controls how the command-line client behaves.

:format:   sets a default value for the ``--format`` flag, if it is
           not specified.
:editor:   sets which editor to use when editing your plan, in case
           you want to use one other than is set by the ``EDITOR``
           environment variable.
