docs/index.rst, before:

.. clans documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec 25 19:44:41 2012.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Command-line Plans (``clans``)
==============================

Clans is a command-line client for the GrinnellPlans_ social network.

.. _GrinnellPlans: http://grinnellplans.com/

.. image:: gorp.png
    :alt: "clans screenshot"

See what's going on in Portland:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans read portland

Check quick love:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans love

Edit your plan in ``$EDITOR``:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans edit

Not only is clans the most legit way to waste time on the internet,
but it is also a useful tool for:

  - automatically backing up your plan
  - scheduling a plan update for a later time
  - emailing yourself when new planlove arrives

and much much more. No Limits™!


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   install
   usage
   configuration
   extensions
   cookbook



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

renamed --file to --from-file, doc changes
--file is a dangerous option, so I removed the short flag -f and
renamed the long flag to something more explicit. Ideally this option
should be part of the backup extension but that's not possible right
now because the hooks don't offer any way to modify the plan text.

I also made a lot of documentation additions/changes that have been
nagging me for a while, and changed a few of the command line --help
outputs to flow more nicely together.

docs/index.rst, after:

.. clans documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec 25 19:44:41 2012.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Command-line Plans (``clans``)
==============================

Clans is a command-line client for the GrinnellPlans_ social network.

.. _GrinnellPlans: http://grinnellplans.com/

.. image:: gorp.png
    :alt: "clans screenshot"

Read the [gorp] plan:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans read gorp

Check quick love:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans love

Edit your plan in ``$EDITOR``:

.. code-block:: console

    $ clans edit

Not only does clans offer an alternative interface to Plans,
but it is also a useful tool for:

  - automatically backing up your plan
  - scheduling a plan update for a later time
  - emailing yourself when new planlove arrives

and much more. No Limits™!


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   install
   usage
   configuration
   extensions
   cookbook



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
